

gameplay changes first, then gameplay additions, then story

~ Intro

...

I feel like World of Warcraft (and any media or art form in general)
needs a central figure like Hideo Kojima, YoshiP, IceFrog or Zack Snyder that has
their vision respected by the developers.
Take Snyder for instance: it doesn't matter if you liked his version
of Justice League or not, it's undeniable that it was a huge success.
And, to be fair, it has some really great scenes
    [ flash going back in time ]
but it also shows that Zack Snyder is a complete hack when it comes
to music
    [ music subtitle screenshot (wonder woman scene for instance) ]
so if we could go back in time and make the movie right, I'd trust
him with everything but the music department, and we would have a
pretty good movie.

Icefrog is also a very relevant figure. The DotA community likes him way more than
the League of Legends community has ever embraced a single developer. He's in
charge (or the scapegoat) for anything gameplay related, including balance. And it
has worked out pretty well. Even when IceFrog is wrong, you can see the reason why
he tried some updates. I also respect him a lot for the fact that he keeps himself
anonymous, I think some people at Blizzard
    [ show mccree character, afrasiabi npcs, twitter index page ]
should take a page from that.

This expansion is what I would do if I was that figure. It's not
meant to be taken as an absolutely serious project, I'm doing this
for study purposes... _mostly_.

...

- Direction

Freedom: it's the cornerstone of this project. The idea is to let casual players
enjoy casual and hardcore content, and let hardcore players enjoy hardcore *AND*
casual content. Do whatever you find fun, whenever you want.

This means removing very few stuff (everything 'till Shadowlands). It sounds
counterproductive, but, as I will explain below, it just works(TM). Instead of
alienating players who love the classic WoW experience (with its worldbuilding,
numerous quests, exploring, dungeoneering and so on) or players who love the
modern WoW experience (with its lobbies, organized content, difficult encounters
and so on), we join both worlds and let the players do exactly what they want.

To explain how I would do so, I need to spoil a bit of the story:

- Reality Ender

Zovaal wins, throwing both players and Warcraft characters into... something else. 
Another reality, to be precise. However, players would be able to freely walk
between this new reality and the old one.

The Old Reality would have everything till patch 9.something. All your transmogs,
all your gold, all your items, mounts, anything you had. No resets, no deletes, 
nothing that would alienate people who really enjoyed the last 10 years of 
retail WoW. If you're new to the game and you wanna do old content, you can do 
whatever you want, whenever you want. It's there.

The New Reality would have completely new characters, for everyone. Not the same
mistake Cataclysm had on release. Zero gold, no mounts, nothing. Old players
would still be able to show off their accomplishments with achievments and other
systems (or simply by going back to the old reality), and new (and returning)
players would have the experience of a F R E S H realm.

Even monetarily, this would be a good change: it would bring classic players back,
even if it's for a test-drive, and could possibly merge both communities, or at
least many of its players. Remember: we're not designing the game around the 
retail playerbase, nor the classic one. We're designing it for both, by making most
content optional. It's a reverse "Torghast" or "Apexis Crystals" situation.

To prove my point even further, let's deconstruct modern WoW's greatest feature: Dungeons and Raids.

- Dungeons

Mythic 20-man content would be removed, Normal and Heroic would go back to being the norm.

I know that sounds  
...


- Classes

...

The Necromancer

...
based on [...] (warcraft 3 etc)

TSWoW has a tutorial for custom classes and it already had a Necromancer,
so I just filled in the blanks and had a functioning class in no time. 

...

- Gameplay

...

Housing...

...

- Story

...

Wrathion...

...

Tyrande and Sylvanas would be more relevant to the story. In fact, the idea is to make
every single race leader more impactful to the narrative, instead of basically Varian
and Thrall.

They're the only ones who know _partly_ what happened, as Wrathion told them. However,
this new reality has slight changes from the old one, so they can't just reveal
everything to everyone _just yet_. Both of the leaders would need to act in the shadows,
trying to nudge things _just_ in the right direction.
[ Random scenes of house of cards ]
Somewhat like House of Cards, maybe. I think it would be ridiculously cliché if those two
decided to do things in order to "destroy the other faction", I find that really, really
stupid at this point. It's my same gripe with Jaina in BFA: everyone loved it, but I found
it kinda silly. Jaina saw Thrall, an orc, save the world like what? Two or three times by then?
[ Warcraft 3 thrall, green jesus cataclysm thrall ] 
And then "OH DADDY SORRY I DIDN'T KILL THE GREEN GUYS, YOU WOULD BE ALIVE FOR A FEW MORE YEARS
BEFORE DEATHWING BURNED US ALL THE FUCK OUT"
[ jaina warbringers cinematic ]
Now, I GET WHY she's like that, okay? I understand the whole deal with Garrosh and how it would
blind someone. Just not Jaina, not the Warcraft 3 Jaina, at least. Hell, not ANY archmage with
arcane intellect and wisdom.

Most quests that deal with the Old Reality would have players talk to either Tyrande or Sylvanas,
and that would make them walk around quite a bit. I don't think the community would mind walking
around, even more so if there's a boat from Stormwind to Darnassus. Maybe it does suck and, if
it does, then we put some portals or something.
[ on the screen: OH GOD PLEASE NO ]
To be fair, I think Blizzard vastly underestimated people's patience. Not everyone has ADHD,
specially MMO players. I really don't like teleporting people around left and right, and it's one
of my main problems with LFG and LFR.

And I know, I know, you guys can't stand Sylvanas anymore. I understand that. However, this wouldn't
be the "self insert waifu"
[ pic of that weird guy as nathanos, random sylvanas vids]
Sylvanas, it would be the real deal. Arthas shootin', hateful, Machiavelli Sylvanas.
[ vid of sylvanas in warcraft 3 ]

She's also fit for the job. After all, we'd need one scheming motherfucker to be able to nudge things
in the right direction, without being sloppy or being caught. Hell, you could just say that Zovaal
rewriting the reality made her smarter, or something... or just made her as smart as she was back then.

[ CONTENT ]
The expansion would start with the max level being 65, and end with it being 70. It would be the first
expansion to do so, and that's because it would be more focused on single patches. We'd also make sure
that old content doesn't get wasted, only easier. Somewhat like Final Fantasy 14.
[ FFXIV stuff ]

Things would start pretty normal, but slightly uncanny: some quests would be moved, like Mankrik's wife
or some "collect X" objectives. Dungeons would be harder for the most part, as if the creatures got
smarter or something... which they probably *DID*. Some quests wouldn't exist anymore, but there would be
some new quests to fill in. Strange.
[ dungeon scenes, questing scenes in barrens ]

Then high level dungeons would be considerably more difficult, and have different enemies than they had in
Old Azeroth. This is where the New Reality cascades its effects, it comes to a point where things are 
unrecognizable: Maraudon is no longer open, Dire Maul is no longer filled with ogres, etc. The world is now
strange, alien. It's not where you grew up, even though it seems like it.
[ dungeons ]
 
By the end, things would be challenging for today's standards, and the entire world would flip on it's head:
Naxxramas would never have happened, as Tyrande/Sylvanas would give the players a quest to deal with Kel'Thuzad
in Stratholme (or Scholomance, or anywhere else, who cares) by surprise and he would never be able to rally his forces.

Onyxia would be killed on the spot by the Alliance heroes (or maybe Tyrande), while she's hiding herself 
as Lady Prestor.

Players would still need to deal with Ragnaros, but BOY would he be strong, and have new tricks. Molten Core would 
also be an open zone, and he'd be an world boss, just like Thunderaan. Something like that.
I didn't think too much about the dungeons and raids lineup, but you get the idea.





[ THE BURNING CRUSADE ]
So, how would expansions work? We're back in old Azeroth, but we know everything that would happen.
That's exactly what would make this whole thing cool: the Butterfly Effect.
[ math ramifications idk ]
You see, 
